Add BatchController for performant document writing (#679)
kuzzleio/sdk-javascript: doc/7/core-classes/batch-controller/introduction/index.md

---
code: false
type: page
title: Introduction
description: BatchController class
order: 0
---

# BatchController

<SinceBadge version="auto-version" />

This class is an overload of the document controller and can be switched "as-is" in your code.

> It allows to group API action by batches to significantly increase performances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows to group API actions into batches to significantly increase performances.
```

The following methods will be executed by batch using
m* actions:
 - create => mCreate
 - replace => mReplace
 - createOrReplace => mCreateOrReplace
 - update => mUpdate
 - get => mGet
 - exists => mGet
 - delete => mDelete

::: warning
Standard API errors will not be available.
Except for the `services.storage.not_found` error.
:::

> By default, the BatchController send a batch of document every 10ms. This can be configured when instantiating the BatchController through the `options.interval` constructor parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the BatchController sends a batch of documents every 10ms. This can be configured when instantiating the BatchController through the `options.interval` constructor parameter.
```

::: info

> Depending on your load, you may want to increase the timer interval to execute bigger batch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your workload, you may want to increase the timer interval to execute bigger batches.
```

> A bigger interval will also mean more time between two batch and potentialy degraded performances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bigger interval will also mean more time between two batches and potentially degraded performances.
```

> The default value of 10ms offer a good balance between batch size and maximum delay between two batch and should be suitable for most situations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value of 10ms offers a good balance between batch size and maximum delay between two batches and should be suitable for most situations.
```
